# Welcome

Welcome to AlgoIDE project.
AlgoIDE is an IDE dedicated to teach to kids and beginner how to program.

It use its own language call AL (Algoid Language) syntactically near from industrial standards (like java and javascript) with simplifications and semantically near from Python and Lua.

Enjoy to help me to continue this great project ;-)

# License
Copyright (C) 2014 Yann Caron aka. cyann

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

# Notice and FAQ

* how to add objects to Algoid Language API ?
Simply add it definition to [AlJavaVM.java file](AlgoIDE / src / fr / cyann / algoide / runtime / ALJavaVM.java) into addFrameworkObjects

The design is based on a template methode on the top of the AST dynamic visitor.
Then this method is automatically calles and cached by the language runtime when AL script is exécuted.

Then, simply add your Object definition to the astbuilder using the approriate factory :

```
#!java
ObjectDeclaration<RuntimeContext> myObject= FactoryUtils.findObject(builder, "myObject");
```

* how to add a method to the previous object ?
Simply by adding the declaration to the object as the following code :

```
#!java
myObject.addDeclaration(DeclarationFactory.factory("myMethod", new MethodVisitor<Block<RuntimeContext>, RuntimeContext>() {
  @Override
    public void visite(Block<RuntimeContext> ast, RuntimeContext context) {
      int myArg = (int) ast.function.decl.params.get(0).var.mv.getNumber();

      // the method implementation here

, "myArg0"));
```

Notice that to get arguments into the methode, you have to add a dummy name at the end of the factory call (here "myArg0") and retrive it by number into the parameter collection of the method : ``ast.function.decl.params.get(0).var.mv``

This code will return a MutableVariant. Retreive the data you want with mutable variant methods like getBool, getNumber, getString, getItem, getFunction, getObject and so on.



Have fun!
